# Source: OLMSmoother2AE/OLMSmoother2AE/doc/OLM Smoother v2 AE Manual EN.pdf


--- page 1 ---
OLM Smoother v2 Manual
Introduction
OLM Smoother is an After Effects plug-in specialized in smoothing cel animation drawings.
The v2 supports color space conversion and improves the smoothing of diagonal lines and so on.
©IIS-P／" Ponnomichi " Production Committee
Original, OLM Smoother v1, OLM Smoother v2
Release Notes
● v2
○ Add Smoothness
○ Add Extra Smooth
○ Add Smoother Version
○ Add Gamma Correction
■ Add Gamma Value
■ Add Number of Gamma
■ Add Gamma Color
○ ＭFR support
○ 32 bit support
Usage
To apply the effect, use the menu: Effects → OLM Plug-ins → OLM Smoother.
Apply it to a cel drawing to smooth the lines while using the color key parameters to get a transparent
background. In case there are gradations in the colors you can use the Smooth Range parameter. You can use
Gamma Correction to adjust line thickness.
1
OLM Digital, Inc. R&D


--- page 2 ---
OLM Smoother parameters
Use Color Key
When “Use Color Key” parameter is on, you can choose a color to key with the “Color Key” parameter before
applying OLM Smoother.
©IIS-P／" Ponnomichi " Production Committee
Before/After applying color keying
Smoothness and Extra Smooth
Smoothness is the strength of the smoothing. When 0, nothing gets smoothed. Default is 100, maximum
smoothing is applied. Extra Smooth parameter adds smoothing to get even smoother lines.
2
OLM Digital, Inc. R&D


--- page 3 ---
©IIS-P／" Ponnomichi " Production Committee
Smootheness/Extra Smooth Comparison： 0/0、100/0、100/100
Smoother Version
You can choose a Smoother Version value: v1 or v2. This only affects how the Gamma Correction is applied.
When using v1, we do not linearize the color prior to processing.
Smooth Range
When the layer you want to apply OLM Smoother contains gradations, the lines don't get as smooth as you
expect. By tuning the “Smooth Range” parameter, you can get smoother lines in that case.
©IIS-P／" Ponnomichi " Production Committee
Input、Do Smooth Range=0、Do Smooth Range=6
This parameter sets a range where we consider the color to be the same. The parameter range is [0,255]. When
255 the output is identical to the input. Usually the valid range that results in smooth lines is between 0 and 20.
Gamma Correction
OLM Smoother processing is assuming the input is sRGB. So we start by converting sRGB to linear, smooth the
image before converting back to sRGB. The Gamma Correction parameters allow adding a gamma conversion
after the conversion to linear conversion, before and after the smoothing.
The merit of sRGB conversion is to get a better blend quality of the colors and thinner the black lines. By default
we use sRGB conversion because OLM artists like that result. We give a comparison of Gamma correction
results below.
3
OLM Digital, Inc. R&D


--- page 4 ---
©B/T-CCTM
Input、No Gamma Correction, Gamma correction=AllColors + Gamma Value=2.4
You can see that in the middle image, the red and blue colors are mixing correctly, the lines are thinner than the
lines on the right image. On the right image you can see some dark fringe around the red pupil.
If you don't want to use sRGB to Linear conversion, set the Smoother Version parameter to v1.
Gamma Correction may be set in All Colors mode where all colors have gamma correction applied. The bigger
Gamma Value parameter is, the thicker lines and the more black fringe at extreme color blend like blue/red color
blend.
If you want to keep black line thickness while have nice color blend, you can use the Gamma Colors mode of the
Gamma Correction parameter. By adding only the black lines in the Gamma Colors list, you can obtain the
following results.
©B/T-CCTM
Smoother Version = v2
Gamma Correction = Gamma Colors, black only
Input, Gamma Value=1, Gamma Value = 2.4
4
OLM Digital, Inc. R&D
